After a very poor out of bounds pull from Revolver, Ironside sets up in a vertical stack near midfield.


Stubbs starts in front of the stack, Danny Clark in the back, and they’re simply going out from near and in from deep. Clark receives the disc and hits Prial cutting horizontally out of the stack for a short gain. After a few seconds of possession, there’s a pick call in the stack. Here’s what Prial sees:


Boston’s got their handlers bunched up in the front of the stack, and one of their weaker throwers with the disc. Kapinos immediately comes back to the disc, is tightly covered, and Prial looks him off. Rebholz jets for the force side corner, but the throw there would be very difficult. Behind Rebholz is actually Josh Markette, totally obscured in this screenshot; he also makes a dump cut, but Mac Taylor’s mark cuts off Prial’s throw.

All he’s left with is Danny Clark, who has cleared across the field to the front of the stack. Prial must be at a high stall count, and tries to fire an IO flick to Clark but it sails, and Ironside has turned the disc.

Revolver sets up Kanner with the disc and Beau (who has come on for a D point) in an iso stack.


Unfortunately, at this point the footage goes into a replay of Danny Clark trying to catch Prial’s throw, and we resume just in time to see Kanner, 50 yard farther and on the other side of the field, overthrow a backhand huck into the endzone.

The Boston O resumes from the goal line in a horizontal stack, but again the replay has obscured their initial play. They eventually work it to Alex Kapinos, who has this look with the disc:


Boston’s best deep cutter, Peter Prial, is cutting away. Kapinos loads up and tries the flick huck, but it’s short. Prial tries to go up over Taylor, but they’re both too early and Russell Wynne, playing heads up D, is right behind them to make the D.

After he flips the disc back to Taylor, Revolver takes an intelligent timeout, and comes back out of the TO with Beau in an iso stack again.


This time, Taylor whips an impossibly low forehand to Beau, and Sherwood pops out of the stack, where Beau centers it to him.

Eventually, Revolver work it up the field to near the goal line, where they switch to a vertical stack.


At this point, Kanner and Taylor think they catch Prial poaching, Taylor cuts for the sideline, and Kanner lofts a throw in that direction.

Prial shows great awareness to see the throw, catch up to Taylor, and even up the score with him on this point by blocking the disc.

So, after the fourth turn of the point, Ironside gets another chance to redeem themselves and convert the point. They set up in their vertical stack and do just that, with a beautiful play that can illustrate how their vertical stack can be deadly in just one screenshot.


After they center to Jacob Taylor, Peter Prial makes the short in cut when he notices Mac Taylor on the wrong side of him. Stubbs makes a big out cut, and when the lane clears, cuts underneath and Prial throws to him up the line.

Danny Clark, who started the play with a breakside cut, sees Stubbs get the disc, and makes the deep cut from the opposite side of the field. Stubbs makes no mistake, launches a huge flick, and Ironside have finally secured this point. Watch the play to enjoy Stubbs’ bomb:

[[ XXX insert Stubbs’ bomb ]]

It’s interesting to note the difference between this huck and Kapinos’ earlier huck. This time, the cutter is across the field, has a step advantage, and there are no Revolver players in position to poach. It’s a much better throw in both conception and execution.
