* The setup: Godwin vs. Malthus
    * The year was 1798
        The French Revolution was coming to a close, and the American
        Revolution had ended just 15 years ago. John Locke, David Hume, and Adam
        Smith had just rewritten the whole of political philosophy. To some, it
        seemed that
        humanity was on the verge of a breakthrough. One of those was William
        Godwin.
    * on Godwin
        An iconoclast, one of the founders of anarchism, and a
        believer in the infinite perfectability of mankind, Godwin believed
        that each generation was improving upon the last, and
        he saw no reason why this trend would not continue indefinitely; up to
        and including the perfection of human society.
    * Malthus (:30)
        Opposing this view was the reverend Thomas Robert Malthus.
        One of the greatest economists
        of all time, his name suffered the worst fate that history has to offer:
        it was turned into an adjective. To explain what "malthusian" means,
        let's talk about what he wrote in 1798
* The Big Idea
    * The two principles
        Malthus starts with two simple principles: People need food, and people
        are going to keep having sex (and babies).

        But there's a problem: each person can have 2 babies, but a given area of 
        farm can only produce a given quantity of food. That means that
        people can grow exponentially, while food can only grow linearly.
    * linear vs. exponential. Doom! (1:00)
        Here's the graph that everybody thinks Malthus was talking about.
        Population grows out of control, while food grows slowly. The inevitable
        result is *doom*!!?!

        But that's not what Malthus actually claimed. Instead, he argued that
        population is *limited* by the availability of food.
    * But he really meant...
        Therefore, population grows in proportion to the available food, and
        usually to the limit of the available food. Because we are usually at
        the limit of the available food, he argues that Godwin was wrong,
        humanity is not perfectible, and there will always be misery in the
        world because *somebody* will be at the margin without food.
    * How does that happen? and positive checks (1:30)
        But how does that work? how does humanity manage to stay at the limit
        of its available food? Malthus proposes two mechanisms: Positive checks
        are anything that limit population due to "vice or misery". Anybody who
        dies due to poverty, starvation, or disease is a victim of these positive
        checks.
    * Preventive checks
        Preventive checks are unique to human experience: only humans have the
        awareness and ability to cease having babies because we believe
        we will not be able to bring them up properly. Refusing to have babies
        is not a fitness maximizing behavior.
* What does that say about population now
    * Population graph (2:00)
        When we look at the graph of world population, we see an obvious
        increase in the human growth rate since about 1950. What does that
        mean? Following Malthus' logic, it means that humanity has vastly
        increased its means of subsistence, and population has been growing
        rapidly to try and catch up.
    * the "Population Bomb"
        Some people have tried to use this population graph as evidence
        that humanity is headed for a massive collapse as population rapidly
        overwhelms our ability to feed them. These predictions were especially
        popular in the 1970s... TODO. So why haven't "the population bomb" killed
        us all yet?
    * Technology (2:30)
        Norman Borlaug, Green revolution
    * Japan population
        However, in the countries of the first world, that growth has begun to level
        off and even to decline. In Japan, Germany, and Italy, the birth rate has
        dipped below the death rate, meaning that populations in those countries are
        beginning to decline. What we're seeing is the population checking itself
        naturally as it arrives near its limit, just as Malthus predicted.
* The possibility of social collapse.
    * (3:00)
        So everything's fine, right? If Malthus' theory is correct, humanity should
        just continue on in the world, and our population will automatically correct
        itself to remain near the level the world can sustain.

        Not entirely. Especially as the world grows more interconected and
        interdependent, we run the risk of population collapse.
    * Population collapse (2 slides, 3:15 - 3:45)
        As humanity's ability to produce increased, so has our specialization.
        Modern civilization depends not only on agriculture for food, but 
        extensive systems for carrying and cleaning water, a huge infrastructure
        for generating and carrying electricity, vast transportation networks
        for carrying people and products, networks of wires for carrying
        information between people and computers, huge armies for defending
        ourselves from others, huge political organizations for preventing
        them from attacking each other, vast networks of sewers for
        carrying our waste safely, and many more technologies both social and 
        technical that sustain our life.
    * So?
        Humans, as we've seen, have developed mechanisms for limiting population
        in small amounts. Positive checks and preventive checks have proven 
        sufficient to limit society to living within its means for the last 10,000
        years. But if some large-scale event manages to kick the supports out
        from underneath our system, we have no idea what would happen to
        our modern day society.
* What can we do about social collapse?
    * Short term (4:00)
        Malthus two principles will continue to hold as far as we can imagine;
        people will continue to mate and have babies, and society will still
        be limited by the means of subsistence.

        So what we can do in the short term is increase research funding for
        new technologies for clean water, clean energy, and clean cities.
        Just as importantly, we can continue to increase our social technology.
    * Social Technology
        What do I mean by "social technology"? I've used that term twice now, but
        when I say "technology" you're probably thinking of breathing tubes or
        computers. What I mean is that social technologies enable us to continue
        producing more with the resources we have, just as the technologies
        given to us by science do.
    * Long term (4:30)
        colonize other planets, create refuges from large disasters. Mainly
        just allow ourselves to think about what could happen; don't be
        scared of by its "weirdness"
    * Thanks
